content/post/journey.md, before:

---
title: "Journey"
date: 2022-07-03T21:01:45-04:00
draft: false
ShowToc: true
---

## Position Statement

Engineering and Technology leader with over 20 years of expertise in software engineering. Scales inclusive, collaborative teams. Drives continuous improvement of people, processes, and products across teams to deliver business value.

***

## Skills 

* Excellent leadership, teaching and communication skills
* Deep understanding of Agile (Scrum, Kanban) technical project management and workflow
* Experience in managing multicultural teams of 20+ people, both local and remote worldwide (lead of leads)
* Mobile and Web Application Development (HTML/CSS/JavaScript/PHP/MySQL/Xcode)
* Enterprise cloud hosting (AWS, GCP) and Continuous Integration server (Jenkins, TeamCity) setup/maintenance 
* Experience with many project types, including web, app, video, retail, brand, and strategic consulting

***

## Work Experience

_Full work history available on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/scottkosman/)_ 

### Engineering Manager (Contract), [Media.Monks](https://media.monks.com)

JUNE 2023 - NOVEMBER 2023

Led multiple cross-disciplinary engineering teams in the development of a digital solution for commercial real estate transactions at a prominent U.S. bank with a workforce of over 20,000 employees. This solution provided title insurance and property/mortgage services to corporate clients worldwide.

### Engineering Manager, [Exos](https://teamexos.com)

JULY 2022 - MAY 2023

Led a team of 8 full-stack software engineers responsible for building and maintaining the Exos Fit mobile applications and underlying infrastructure, which connected over 300,000 eligible members to personalized health, nutrition, fitness and recovery coaches generating over $1MM in revenue as a result of signing top tier clients including Google, Intel, Pfizer, PepsiCo and American Airlines.

* Collaborated closely with cross-functional colleagues (Product, Data, Design, Marketing), business stakeholders, and executive leadership to roadmap quarterly and annual technical plans and product evolution.
* Led major technical initiatives including the implementation of Apple Health/Google Fit fitness tracking and push notifications.
* Developed OKRs and KPIs in coordination with executive leadership to align the goals of our engineering organization with the larger business. Defined processes for measuring success, and socialized them with  the wider organization.
* Implemented a performance management and career growth framework for engineering team members with a focus on SMART goal setting and individual ownership of professional development.


### Engineering Director (Contract), [Double Nines, Inc.](https://doublenines.co)

DECEMBER 2021 – JUNE 2022

Provided both software engineering direction and senior-level technical consulting to a rapidly scaling vehicle-sharing startup.

* Directed 20+ member software development team (full-stack web development, data engineering, QA) through all stages of a project life cycle, oversaw engineering responsibilities for different platforms.
* Agile technical lead, guided the team through all sprint ceremonies.
* Created and reviewed architecture plans through large-scale rewrites of significant portions of an existing application codebase.
* Project-scoped new business efforts, including estimation. Directed developers and delivery managers through new business efforts.

### Group Engineering Director, [Thrillworks, Inc.](https://thrillworks.com)	

MAY 2020 – DECEMBER 2021

Oversaw all operations for a 20+ member engineering team including staffing/recruitment, budget forecasts, alignment within the larger organization, and OKR creation.

* Heavily involved in new business acquisition. Crafted and presented detailed technological business proposals and technology implementation plans for multiple accounts ranging from sub-$100k to $500k.
* Forecast long-term trends and business needs ensuring the team is staffed, trained, and equipped correctly.
* Introduced a clear structure of team organization and reporting lines to a formerly very flat organizational hierarchy. Established company-wide best practices in career growth, performance management, and training programs, which resulted in increased reported employee satisfaction and confidence.

### Director of Solution Design, [adidas](https://adidas.com)	

FEBRUARY 2016 – DECEMBER 2019

Technical Director on adidas.com. Responsible for oversight of all campaign-related development projects at adidas (web, mobile, and in-store digital display), driving and developing technology strategy and execution. 

* Key counterpart for internal clients (business stakeholders, IT/infrastructure, security, product management) and external partners (advertising/production companies, 3rd party content providers) to ensure smooth technical delivery of websites, applications, and mobile development. 
* Technical direction for multiple €1MM+ budget projects including vetting and selecting vendors, developing technical roadmaps, fostering seamless collaboration between internal and external business partners for timely, on-budget delivery.
* Definition, evolution, documentation and training around internal best-practices and guidelines.
* Creation, execution, and revision of detailed project work plans to meet changing needs and requirements.
* Supported external development agencies with various adidas technical infrastructures (CRM, deployment, etc.).

***

_References available on request._

Commit message:

update Journey with 1Password role

content/post/journey.md, after:

---
title: "Journey"
date: 2022-07-03T21:01:45-04:00
draft: false
ShowToc: true
---

## Position Statement

Engineering and Technology leader with over 20 years of expertise in software engineering. Scales inclusive, collaborative teams. Drives continuous improvement of people, processes, and products across teams to deliver business value.

***

## Skills 

* Excellent leadership, teaching and communication skills
* Deep understanding of Agile (Scrum, Kanban) technical project management and workflow
* Experience in managing multicultural teams of 20+ people, both local and remote worldwide (lead of leads)
* Mobile and Web Application Development (HTML/CSS/JavaScript/PHP/MySQL/Xcode)
* Enterprise cloud hosting (AWS, GCP) and Continuous Integration server (Jenkins, TeamCity) setup/maintenance 
* Experience with many project types, including web, app, video, retail, brand, and strategic consulting

***

## Work Experience

_Full work history available on [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/scottkosman/)_ 

### Engineering Manager, MSP Program, [1Password](https://1password.com)

NOVEMBER 2023 – PRESENT

* Leads a globally-distributed team of full stack software engineers responsible for building and maintaining 1Password's solution for Managed Service Providers
* Integral partner in recruiting and hiring across the engineering organization, quintupling my team size in one year as well as enabling multiple hires of all seniority levels in adjacent teams

### Engineering Manager (Contract), [Media.Monks](https://media.monks.com)

JUNE 2023 - NOVEMBER 2023

Led multiple cross-disciplinary engineering teams in the development of a digital solution for commercial real estate transactions at a prominent U.S. bank with a workforce of over 20,000 employees. This solution provided title insurance and property/mortgage services to corporate clients worldwide.

### Engineering Manager, [Exos](https://teamexos.com)

JULY 2022 - MAY 2023

Led a team of 8 full-stack software engineers responsible for building and maintaining the Exos Fit mobile applications and underlying infrastructure, which connected over 300,000 eligible members to personalized health, nutrition, fitness and recovery coaches generating over $1MM in revenue as a result of signing top tier clients including Google, Intel, Pfizer, PepsiCo and American Airlines.

* Collaborated closely with cross-functional colleagues (Product, Data, Design, Marketing), business stakeholders, and executive leadership to roadmap quarterly and annual technical plans and product evolution.
* Led major technical initiatives including the implementation of Apple Health/Google Fit fitness tracking and push notifications.
* Developed OKRs and KPIs in coordination with executive leadership to align the goals of our engineering organization with the larger business. Defined processes for measuring success, and socialized them with  the wider organization.
* Implemented a performance management and career growth framework for engineering team members with a focus on SMART goal setting and individual ownership of professional development.


### Engineering Director (Contract), [Double Nines, Inc.](https://doublenines.co)

DECEMBER 2021 – JUNE 2022

Provided both software engineering direction and senior-level technical consulting to a rapidly scaling vehicle-sharing startup.

* Directed 20+ member software development team (full-stack web development, data engineering, QA) through all stages of a project life cycle, oversaw engineering responsibilities for different platforms.
* Agile technical lead, guided the team through all sprint ceremonies.
* Created and reviewed architecture plans through large-scale rewrites of significant portions of an existing application codebase.
* Project-scoped new business efforts, including estimation. Directed developers and delivery managers through new business efforts.

### Group Engineering Director, [Thrillworks, Inc.](https://thrillworks.com)	

MAY 2020 – DECEMBER 2021

Oversaw all operations for a 20+ member engineering team including staffing/recruitment, budget forecasts, alignment within the larger organization, and OKR creation.

* Heavily involved in new business acquisition. Crafted and presented detailed technological business proposals and technology implementation plans for multiple accounts ranging from sub-$100k to $500k.
* Forecast long-term trends and business needs ensuring the team is staffed, trained, and equipped correctly.
* Introduced a clear structure of team organization and reporting lines to a formerly very flat organizational hierarchy. Established company-wide best practices in career growth, performance management, and training programs, which resulted in increased reported employee satisfaction and confidence.

### Director of Solution Design, [adidas](https://adidas.com)	

FEBRUARY 2016 – DECEMBER 2019

Technical Director on adidas.com. Responsible for oversight of all campaign-related development projects at adidas (web, mobile, and in-store digital display), driving and developing technology strategy and execution. 

* Key counterpart for internal clients (business stakeholders, IT/infrastructure, security, product management) and external partners (advertising/production companies, 3rd party content providers) to ensure smooth technical delivery of websites, applications, and mobile development. 
* Technical direction for multiple €1MM+ budget projects including vetting and selecting vendors, developing technical roadmaps, fostering seamless collaboration between internal and external business partners for timely, on-budget delivery.
* Definition, evolution, documentation and training around internal best-practices and guidelines.
* Creation, execution, and revision of detailed project work plans to meet changing needs and requirements.
* Supported external development agencies with various adidas technical infrastructures (CRM, deployment, etc.).

***

_References available on request._
